.Dd April 30, 2014
.Dt bacon 1
.Sh NAME
.Nm bacon
.Nd encode or decode messages using Bacon's cipher
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl -encode Ar string
.br
.Op Fl -encode Fl -alphabet=alphabet Ar string
.br
.Op Fl -decode Ar string
.br
.Op Fl -decode Fl -alphabet=alphabet Ar string
.br
.Op Fl v | -version
.br
.Op Fl h | -help
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
encode or decode messages using Bacon's cipher.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -ohang -offset
.It Sy "--encode"
Encode a string of text using Bacon's cipher.
.It Sy "--encode --alphabet=alphabet"
Specify a custom cipher alphabet to be used during encoding. By default the common 24-letter Bacon alphabet is used, in which case instances of `J` and `V` in the input are replaced with `I` and `U` respectively before further encoding the message.
.It Sy "--decode"
Decode a string of ciphertext using Bacon's cipher.
.It Sy "--decode --alphabet=alphabet"
Specify a custom cipher alphabet to be used during decoding. By default the common 24-letter Bacon alphabet is used.
.It Sy "-v, --version"
Print bacon's version.
.It Sy "-h, --help"
Show the help screen.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
The
.Nm bacon
utility exits with one of the following values:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width flag -compact
.It Li 0
.Nm
successfully encoded/decoded the input and printed the result.
.It Li 1
.Nm
wasn't instructed to encode/decode anything (for example, the
.Ar --help
flag was set); or, an error occurred.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl -ohang -offset
.It Sy "bacon --encode 'foo bar baz'"
Print an encoded version of the given string.
.It Sy "bacon --decode 'AABABABBABABBAB AAAABAAAAABAAAA AAAABAAAAABABBB'"
Print the decoded version of the given ciphertext.
.It Sy "echo\ 'foo bar baz'\ |\ bacon --encode"
Print the encoded version of the string that gets piped in.
.El
.Sh BUGS
bacon's bug tracker is located at <https://github.com/mathiasbynens/bacon-cipher/issues>.
.Sh AUTHOR
Mathias Bynens <http://mathiasbynens.be/>
.Sh WWW
<http://mths.be/bacon>
